# Changelog

#### Fixed

- Fix audio record status text.

# [1.8.0] Released on 2020-12-07

#### Added 
- Participant groups can now be set directly via the participant object, writing
  for example ``participant.set_participant_group("my_trial_maker", self.answer)``.
- Chain networks now support participant groups. These are by default read from the
  network's ``definition`` slot, otherwise they can be set by overriding
  ``choose_participant_group``.

#### Changed
- Update IP address treatment (closes CAP-562).
- Update experiment network `__json__` method to improve dashboard display.

#### Fixed
- Fix problem where wrong assignment_x `super` functions are being called.
- Fix bug in `fail_participant_trials`.


## [1.7.1] Released on 2020-12-01

- Fix regression in ColorVocabulary Test.

## [1.7.0] Released on 2020-11-30

#### Added
- Stimulus media extension to allow multiple files.
- New OptionControl class with subclasses: CheckboxControl, DropdownControl, RadiobuttonControl, and PushButtonControl.
- New Canvas drawing module and demo 'graphics' based on Raphaël vector graphics library.
- Ability to disable bonus display by setting `show_bonus = False` in the Experiment class.

#### Changes
- Optimization of 'estimated_max_bonus' function.
- Refactor ad and consent pages using new default templates.

#### Fixed
- Register pre-deployment routines.
- Missing role attribute for experiment_network in dashboard.
- Make recode_wav compatible with 64-bit audio files.


## [1.6.1] Released on 2020-11-16

#### Fixed
- Error when using psynet debug/sandbox/deploy


## [1.6.0] Released on 2020-11-12

#### Added
- Command-line functions ``psynet debug``, ``psynet sandbox``, ``psynet deploy``.
- ``PreDeployRoutine`` for inclusion into an experiment timeline.
- Limits for participant and experiment payments by introducing ``max_participant_payment`` and ``soft_max_experiment_payment`` including a visualisation in the dashboard and sending out notification emails.
- `psynet estimate` command for estimating a participant's maximum bonus and time to complete the experiment.
- `client_ip_address` attribute to `Participant`.
- Reorganisation of documentation menu, incl. new menu items `Experimenter documentation` and `Developer documentation`.
- Documentation for creating deploy tokens for custom packages and a deploy token for deployment of the ``psynet`` package.
- Ubuntu 20.04 installation documentation (``INSTALL_UBUNTU.md``)


## [1.5.1] Released on 2020-10-14

#### Changes

- Improve data export directory structure


## [1.5.0] Released on 2020-10-13

#### Added

- Add a new tab to the dashboard in order to monitor the progress been made in the individual modules included in a timeline and to provide additional information about a module in a details box and tooltip.
- Improve upload of audio recordings to S3 by auto-triggering the upload right after the end of recording.
- Add new export command for saving experiment data in JSON and CSV format, and as the ZIP-file generated by the Dallinger export command.
- Document existing pre-screening tasks and write a tutorial
- Update deployment documentation

#### Changes

- Move pre-screening tasks into new prescreen module.
- Attempt to fix networks not growing after async post trial
- Bugfix: Enable vertical arrangement of buttons in NAFCControl


## [1.4.2]

- Fixing recruitment bug in chain experiments.


## [1.4.0]

- Extending extra_vars as displayed in the dashboard.


## [1.3.0]

- Added video visualisation.


## [1.2.1]

- Bugfix, now `reverse_scale` works in slider pages.


## [1.2.0]

- Introducing aggregated MCMCP.


## [1.0.0]

- Added regression tests.
- Upgraded to Bootstrap 4 and improved UI elements.
